OK so welcome back.
So now that we've been to my school workbench Let's have a look at what my school work bench actually
is and how are we going to be using it.
So my school work Benge is an integrated development environment for the Mariscal database system.
This means that it's a visual tool for database design databases administration and school development.
So we're going to be writing all escrowed code and queries in my ask you work.
Now we could use the command line to do this but my school work bench gives us a nice visual too and
it's a much more and of way to write our escrow queries.
So now that we know what my score workbench is let's take a quick tour of my school work bench before
we start writing our first school queries in the next lesson.
So if you haven't already.
The first thing I want you to do is open my school work bench so you can see this page.
And once you've done that we can click into dev use.
Now once you click into dev visa you're going to see page appear like this on a screen appear like this.
And this is where we're going to be spending the majority of our time in this course.
As you can see there's a lot of features in my school work bench.
You can see we have a lot of links on the left hand side to the left side menu.
We also have a ribbon at the top here and we have this sort of Notepad page open here called query one
query one tab and we also have another ribbon along the top here with even more functions now these
videos just can be a quick tour of my school work bench as we don't need to know every single Ditto
about my school work bench right now.
So like I said we're going to be using my school work bench to write all our Resco queries.
I'm going to be doing that here.
So this is like a notepad page and this is where we can actually come in and start writing.
Scroll.
So right a couple of queries now don't worry if you don't understand this we're going to be going through
this later on in the course.
But this is what an escrow query generally looks like.
So we have select store from a table and then we have select store from another table to type 1 and
2.
And then each escrowed query ends in a semi-colon.
So this semi-colon is telling my Escudo that the query has ended.
So my.
That the query starts here with this selects and finishes with this semi-colon and then it knows that
the second query here starts it after the semi-colon and runs to the next semi-colon which is here.
So my Schiro knows that these are two distinct escrowed queries because of the semi-colons.
So every Escudo query ends in a semi-colon.
So now that we've written some Eskimo queries we need to know how to run them in Workbench and to do
that we need to go to this top ribbon here which is in query top.
And if we hover over each of the icons we can actually see what they do.
It gives a brief description so we can see that this one is to open a script file in this editor.
So if you have already written a script and saved it's your computer you can open it using this like
on here and if you need to save a script for later use then you can use this icon here.
So this is the same script that you've already written.
So if you want to save this script for example with these two queries you can click on this button save
it to your PC and then open it later.
Using this first icon but for running queries where are you interested in these next four icons.
So these free lightning bolts and this hands with the red backgrounds.
So these free lightning bolts for running queries and then this red hand is for stopping a query which
is in progress.
So if we hover over the first lightning bolt we can see it says execute the selected portion of the
script or everything.
If there is no selection.
So by script it means whatever is written in this note pad.
Block here.
So it's saying if I get the description up again
saying execute a selected portion of the script or everything.
If there's no selection so I can select a portion of a script like this just clicking and dragging and
then if I click this lightning bolt is just going to run what I've selected.
So this first query if I hadn't made a selection I just had my cursor down here and click this lightning
bolt.
It's going to run the first query and then it's going to run the second query straight afterwards.
Now the second line in both works slightly differently is going to execute the statement under the keyboard
cursor.
So if we had our keyboard cursor here within the first query.
So it's between the start of the query here and the first semi-colon is just going to run this first
period because that's the only one that's under the cursor.
But if we moved the cursor point to here and click this button then it's going to run.
The second query.
Now this third line in both works slightly differently again is going to execute the explain command
on the stateman under the cursor.
So basically what that means is if we had our cars ahead to run the second query is going to run the
query but it's also going to explain what it's doing behind the scenes how my row is running this query.
So that can be quite useful although I tend not to use this one so much.
So when I'm running queries I'm mainly going to be using these first two lightning bolts.
Trust you run the query and then finally this red hand is to stop the query being executed.
So if you're running a query which is retrieving thousands or tens of thousands of rows of data and
taking a very long time and you want to stop the query rather then waiting for it to finish.
You can click this red hands and it's going to stop the query and then the other important going along
this ribbon is this icon here which says limit to 1000 rows.
So again if you're retrieving data from a table which has hundreds or thousands of rows of data but
you don't retrieve every.
You can limit your resos to a certain number.
So by default it sets a limit to 1000 rows.
You can take the up and down I tried to change this to whatever Valley 150 up to 50000 rows and the
benefit of using this is that obviously it's a lot quicker to run a query which is only going to retrieve
1000 rows rather than 100000 rows.
So that's it for this talk ribbon.
Now let's actually run one of these queries.
So let's run this first query here and see what happens.
You can see we've got a we've got a menu pop up at the bottom here.
And this is our actual output.
So when you run an escrow query you're going to get action out or you're going to get some data which
is output from the bottom here.
So if you run a successful query you're going to get data returns.
But if you run an incorrect query you're going to get an error and that's what happened in this case.
You can see an error because we got a little red X here rather than the green tick and in the action
output is also showing you what action was taken.
So it's selected store from table 1.
And we had that limit to 1000 rows which was stated here.
Now don't worry again if you don't understand this action we're going to be going for you selecting
data from tables later on in this course in in really much more detail.
So don't worry about that for now.
And we also get this response so this Erica.
So he's telling us why it failed.
And again don't worry if you don't understand this is saying no database selected.
So it wasn't able to run this query correctly.
So now we know how to run our escrow queries we know how to get some output from the bottom here.
Let's take a look at this left hand side.
So I'm just going to briefly go for the left hand side as a lot of it is not super useful for this course
for a beginners course.
So let's quickly go through it.
So under this management tab we have this service status.
So if we DoubleClick or not we get a new tab opened which is code administration service status and
then we have some stats on our server so we can see here that is running our server is running.
You can see the load on the server.
You can see the number of connections and you can see traffic and efficiency.
So again this isn't super useful information for this course but it's good to know is that if you're
having issues with my school workbench and then the next type is client connections.
So if we double click on that we can see more detail on which clients are connecting to our server and
then the final tab would look at the management list as users and privileges.
And this is where we can see what users have access to our server to a go server and we can also set
privileges.
So we're actually going to be going through this type in more detail in the next video where we have
to set privileges to our dev user.
And then I want to go down to this performance.
So the performance dashboard and this shows us lots of performance stats on our network on my skew and
something code in IDB.
But again we don't really need to use this.
It's just good to know is that if we're having issues with my skew well.
But the most important thing on this left hand side is actually under the scheme as a database schema
is basically a database diagram showing us what tables are in our database and it's showing us relationships
and other information within our database.
So you can see here there's a list of databases you can tell that databases because of this symbol.
So stacked cylinder that's the symbol for a database and you can see then names of the database here.
So you won't have seen him our booking system or a coffee store database yet because we're actually
going to be creating both of these databases in the course so you'll have a few others listed are things
you have for listed.
But if you go to this dropdown triangle here and click on that you can see within the coffee store database
we have tables and we have other objects called views stored procedures and functions.
And then you can see we have a drop down by the tables so we can click on that and you can see what
tables are within the coffee store database.
And then if you click on customers table you can see even more information so you can see here we have
let's say winning customers and then we also have the columns within the customers table.
So you can see the customers table has five columns within it and then we also have some more information
here.
But again we're going to be going through this later in the course so don't worry if this looks like
gobbledygook.
For now we'll be exploring that later in the course.
You can also click on the other tables to find out information about them as well.
So this database schema is very useful for seeing what tables you've created with databases you've created.
And more information on the tables here.
So that's pretty much it for all my school work bench tool.
Again the most important thing is to know that we have the right queries here.
We can run them using this ribbon at the top here and we get our output at the bottom here.
It's also good.
If you can have a look through the database is that can be quite interesting and useful but most of
the links on the management instance performance just aren't very useful for now.
So let's move on to the next video and start writing our first Escudo queries.